Hello everyone and welcome to part six modules and packages.
You've seen Python.
Import statements before that you've probably wondered how do they work and how we create our own.
It's actually quite simple.
And we'll talk about it more when we actually reach Shingo.
Well let's find out the very basics of modules and get started with the editor.
OK so here I am at the editor and in this lecture we're basically just going to be showing you how you
can create your own module and then import it into another file.
So here under my project folder going to Right-Click add a new file and I will call this my module that
pie in here is going to be a very simple function will say func in module close print CS and this just
prints out I am inside the my module up-I wraps up my file save that and then I will create a new file.
And I will call this my program that pi and this is going to be representative of my program so we can
even do something like split left and right here so I can see them at same time.
So again there's my module and here's my program and we can see they're both inside the same folder
so how can I actually grab code from my module that pi and use it in my program.
Well there's various ways and I'll show you the simplest.
First we can say import my module and note that there's other things here.
So there's the built in modules and the modules you use Condon's taller Pippin's Stallworth and those
are saved in a specific location in Python that you can always call them from the matter where you are.
In this case it's actually in the same folder as this file I can call my module and then if I want to
call a function from my module I can say my module dots function module and then I can say close parentheses
to actually call it.
So now if I say Python and call my program the PI I get back I'm inside my module that py file in when
you ran that file you probably noticed that you got this py cache folder and inside ASPI cache folder
is some my module that C Python code up high C and if you try to open then read it.
It's just a bunch of junk in here that you not be able to actually see.
And basically what happens is when you run a program in Python the interpreter compiles it to byte code
first.
And thats kind of an oversimplification but essentially its stores that in the pie cache folder.
And if you look in there you find a bunch of files sharing the names of the dot PI files in your projects
folder only their extensions are going to be PI that PI C and essentially what this is its bytecode
compiled optimized bytecode compiled versions of your programs file.
And if you're just a programmer you can essentially just ignore it.
All it does is it makes your program start a little faster.
The next time you run it and when your script changed you're going to be recompiled.
And if you delete the files with the whole folder and run your program again they're going to reappear
again.
Really you can just pretty much ignore this pie cache file.
But I just want you to be aware and don't be surprised if you see it being created.
OK moving along.
Let's show you the other various ways you can import from a module.
So what way again import the actual file and then call it off my module.
In other way is to say import module as something so you don't want to write my module every time on
a function for my module so maybe say import as an M and then you can shorten my module here to just
add them and I save that I run Python my program that pi and I still get I am inside the module that
py file.
So that's another way you can call it if you actually just plan on using a few specific functions from
my module that pi.
You probably don't want to import the entire module you want to import a few functions.
And in that case you can say from my module import and then the name of the function or classes you
want to import.
So we say import funkin module and then I don't need to call anything CCRI facing it or prefixing it
we'll just say funkin module run this and I can see I am inside the my module that py file.
Now let's see one last example and this is the example that I'm going to show you but it's really not
recommended that you do this.
You can say from my module import Asterix and this will import everything from my module and you can
just call funkin module just like we did last time.
So this is frowned upon you shouldn't really do this sort of Asterix behavior.
But basically the reason for that is it kind of waste a lot of memory and importing everything with
this Asterix.
OK.
So again use the first three months I showed you and you can always reference a nose for that.
Hopefully now you have a basic understanding of how you can create one PI file a bunch of functions
or classes and then call it from another file.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.